# System requirements

Executing `OpenSWPC` requires a Fortran compiler that can handle (at least a part of) the Fortran 2003 standard and an MPI  library. 
The program can be run on a single CPU or CPU core without parallelization; however, the MPI library is still required.
In addition, the `NetCDF` library, compiled by the same Fortran compiler, is recommended to use the direct input/output of the `NetCDF`-formatted files. 


The source code of `OpenSWPC` almost strictly follows the language standard of Fortran2003. 
As an exception, system calls (the `system()` subroutine) are used. 
Note that this extension is supported by most available Fortran compilers. 
`OpenSWPC` uses stream I/O, which is part of the Fortran2003 standards. 
This functionality may not be implemented with older compilers. 


This code was developed in the following environment: 

-   Apple macOS Sequoia 15.2/Apple M2
-   GNU `gfortran` 14.2.0
-   `OpenMPI` 5.0.6

In addition, the following computers were confirmed to work with \swpc: 

- Ubuntu Linux 24.04.1 LTS w/ gfortran 11.4 (Intel Xeon)
- Wisteria/BDEC-01 of the University of Tokyo (Fujitsu FX1000; A64FX)

(The followings are obsolete architectures that no longer exist or supported but worked in the past. )

-   EIC computer, ERI/UTokyo (ver. 2015; SGI Altix; intel fortran)
-   JAMSTEC Earth Simulator (3rd generation; NEC SX-ACE; NEC compiler)
-   AICS K computer (Fujitsu compiler)
-   Nagoya University (FX10/Fx100; Fujitsu compiler)
-   Linux Cent OS 6.6 (gfortran 4.9.2 & mpich)
-   Linux Ubuntu 16.04LTS (gfortran 5.4 & OpenMPI)
-   JAMSTEC Earth Simulator (4th gen; NEC SX Aurora Tsubasa)
